(1)
Run a script to list files and directories in the file system. If it is a
machine running MS Windows OS, list file systems from all logical drives. If
the machine runs on some flavor of Linux, collect data from all mounted file 
systems. The script should obtain the following data about every file/
directory:

   complete name of the object (name and extension)
   time of creation
   size of the object

The meta-data should include OS information, the name of the logical-drive or 
the mounted file system, the time it took to obtain the listing for each file
system, primary IP address, and such.

Define what observations and correlations you might be able to draw from this 
data. Define a plan of execution and deliverables.

(2)
The placement data of SOIS students for the past ten years is available. The 
proposed analysis must take into account the fact that numerous programs were
introduced and some discontinued during this period. 

You are required to anonymize the data before using it. Suggest a suitable 
method to anonymize the data. Provide technical arguments as to why the 
proposed method is best suited to this context.

Propose a few analyses of this valuable data. Provide visualization of the same.

(3)
The data about the academic performance of the students of SOIS is available. 
This includes data from the past ten years. 

You are required to anonymize the data before putting into use. Suggest a 
suitable method to anonymize the data. Provide technical arguments as to why 
the proposed method is best suited to this context.

you would what analyses you would like to carry out on this data.

(4)
The following URL provides links to UNICEF data about the state of schooling, 
education and literacy across globe:
    http://data.unicef.org/education/overview.html

It includes data under these sections:
    (a) Youth and adult literacy rates
    (b) Net attendance rates
    (c) Completion rates
    (d) Out-of-school rates

Propose at least three different analyses that you could perform on this 
data.  Describe the methods and techniques that you would like to adopt. 
Develop interesting visualization of the same.


(5)
You may use the URL http://www.alexa.com/topsites/countries/IN to determine 
top 200 Web sites that receive more traffic from/in India. Write a simple 
script to scrape this data out of the HTML pages that you obtain by 
retrieving these pages. You may use 'curl' to download these pages for 
further processing.

After determining the top 200 Web sites, use 'curl' once again to retrieve 
the main or landing page of these Web sites. Make a simple text search over
HTML to collect such information as the size of the HTML, the JavaScript 
libraries included in these Web pages, and the size (in bytes) of these 
individual JavaScript libraries. You may want to find out if these pages use 
inline script and CSS, too,

Obtain these metrics and provide a neat visualization of the same.

(6)
The following URL provides links to UNICEF data about the mortality of 
children under five years of age:
    http://data.unicef.org/child-mortality/under-five.html

This page shows a bunch of charts, graphs, and visualization of interesting 
data. Take a look a these carefully and learn from these resources.

On the same page, you may access different data sets falling under following
categories:
    Under-five mortality rate (Trend data including uncertainty ranges)
    Number of deaths of children under five
    Infant mortality rate (Trend data including uncertainty ranges)
    Number of infant deaths
    Sex-specific under-five mortality rate
    Sex-specific infant mortality rate
    Cause of death Download Data 

Suggest interesting analyses you wish to perform on this data set. 
Design and develop solutions, including neat visualization of the same.

(7)
The following URL provides a wealth of data about Olympics:
    http://www.sports-reference.com/olympics/

Import interesting data about countries, medal tallied, sports, men and women
who won medals, etc. Compile data for the past five Olympics games. Use CSV 
format for exporting the data from the Web site mentioned above.

Suggest interesting analyses you wish to perform on this data set. Design and
develop solutions, including neat visualization of the same.




